# 13/03/23
I made the project for the new season today. I have some major descisions to make regarding program structure. Structure of code is extremly important. As our project grows in complexity, it becomes a necessity that we know where everything is, especially since there are multiple programmers on my team. Being able to understand what the other programmer has writen is very important. While 

## Object Oriented vs Procedural
I would really like to keep the program object oriented, however Alan wants the code to be program to be procedural. 

### Procedural

#### Pros
- simpler than oop
- allows for oop adjecent organization with namespaces

#### Cons
- harder to not violate the rules of global scope (devices have to be global, harder to see what affects what)
- no inheritance (this might actually be a good thing)


### Object Oriented

#### Pros
- stronger logical assiciation
- inheritance
- constructors allow all instances to be defined in one file (makes it easy to see port conflicts)
- PROS library is already object oriented
- better for larger programs (ours)

#### Cons
- inheritance
- complexity


## Afterthoughts
I personally think that an object oriented format is better suited to our application. If our program was less complex, I think it would be overkill. I think it might have been a mistake on our current program (for the Spin Up Season). However, if we want to implement an absolute positioning system like odometry, our program will have many sections that need to work together, including a system for getting the position of the robot, a system for moving the robot, and that's just for the chassis. Mechanical subsystems will likely need their own classes/namespaces. If we use namespaces or simply naming conventions, it becomes harder to understand what is related to what. C++'s inability to include multiple namespaces, and lack of support for including only parts of a namespace make it very awkward once things get deeply nested.

For example:
```cpp
int x_coordinate = subsystems::chassis::odometry::get_x_coordinate();
```
We could this to save us some typing: 
```cpp
using namespace subsystems::chassis::odometry;
```
But then we can't use any other namespace. If I want to access something in chassis, or subsystems, I'll have to type out the whole path again. In addition, it might not be obvious that get_x_coordinate is a part of the odometry namespace.

The object oriented alternative is much cleaner.
```cpp
Coord current_position = chassis.get_position();
```
We can make the coordinates a class in themselves (or a struct), which lets us put the x and y coordinates in one variable (and rotation, and whatever other utility methods we need). Its still clear that we are getting the position of the chassis, but we no longer have to type out the entire namespace. The internal organization is very similar, the chassis would probably have an odometry class as one of its members.

Overall, support for object oriented programming in C++ is much more mature than procedural. There are many more features that just make life easy, from initializer lists to constructors. Even in a language like Rust, which takes very large inspiration from functional languages like Haskell, object oriented programming is prevalent due to its idiomatic nature. If we have a procedural program, we will likely try to mimic an object oriented aproach anyway, leaving us with an organizational aproach that is objectivly worse than object oriented.

Despite having many procedural features, C++ is an object oriented language. We should use it that way.
