# 13/03/15
I did some research on motion control algorithms today. I started a deep dive into pure pursuit, because I thought it was required to implement a boomerang controller. However, after a conversation with the developer of LemLib, he told me that this was not the case. The boomerang controller does not require pure pursuit, but it does use some similar concepts.

## Pure Pursuit
Pure pursuit uses a so called lookahead point that the bot moves towards. To do this it requires a path for the bot to follow. This is made of a series of points and line segments on a 2d plane. The algorithm then draws an imaginary circle around the bot, and where the circle intersects the line segments it creates a lookahead point. The bot will then try to move towards the point, but because the circle is relative to the bot, the bot can never reach the point. As the bot moves, the point changes as it moves along the lines, and causes the bot to follow the path set for it. The best analogy I've seen for this is a donkey and a carrot.

The radius of the circle is the lookahead distance. The smaller you make this distance, the closer the bot will follow the set path.

## Boomerang
I'm still figuring out the math for this, but [here](https://www.desmos.com/calculator/unzzpdhajj) is a visualization provided by Liam (author of LemLib).

There are only two points, the start point and end point, as well as the angle that the bot should end at. This algorithm uses a carrot point as well, which works similarly to the one in pure pursuit. The bot moves towards the carrot point, not the end point. As the bot gets closer to the carrot point, the carrot point moves away from the bot. Eventually the carrot point meets the end point, and the bot reaches the target. The algorith that decides the position of the carrot point appears to be some kind of bezier curve. I don't really understand how these work mathematically, so this is the next thing I will research.


The equation for the carrot point is as follows:
```cpp
float h = sqrt(pow(x_start - x_target, 2)+ pow(y_start - y_target,2));
float x_carrot = x_target - h * sin(theta_target) * d_lead;
float y_carrot = y_target - h * cos(theta_target) * d_lead;
```

Then I can use a very similar pid setup to the one that I used for Spin Up with my linear pid movement. I will have one loop that corrects the angle, and one that corrects the forward/backward movement. Then I can add those two loops together to get the bot to move towards the carrot point.
