# 23/03/14
Today I looked at other libraries in order to get inspiration for program structure and how to implement full field tracking. I looked at [LemLib](https://github.com/LemLib/LemLib) and [ARMS](https://github.com/purduesigbots/ARMS). ARMS uses a procedural organizational structure, and LemLib uses an object oriented aproach.

## LemLib
This library provides full field odometry with support for a variety of sensors. It supports pure pursuit and a basic move to controller.

## ARMS
Arms also provides full field odometry. It provides methods that allow you to move the bot to any point on the field. However, the methods with which the chassis can be moved are much more customizable. The user can make the moves relative or absolute, and even choose the rotation that the robot will end the move in (this is called a boomerang controller). It's most interesting feature is the fact that the movement occurs asynchronously. This allows the robot to perform other actions while the chassis is moving.


## Ideal Feature List
Ideally I would get the best features of both:
- absolute position tracking
- move to point system
- pure pursuit
- asynchronous chassis movement
- object oriented structure

## Challenges
The movement remains the hardest part of this whole thing. Pure pursuit I think is out of scope for me. Its overkill for what I want to achieve, and uses concepts that I don't understand. I think the right balance between a simple turn and move forward and full on pure pursuit is a boomerang controller. Essentially it creates a bezier curve that the robot follows between two points.

The other difficult thing is the asynchronous chassis movement. The chassis and the subsystems need some way to communicate so that they don't get out of sync. It looks like the approach ARMS uses is that the chassis movement runs in its own task, and then provides a function that block execution until the chassis stops moving. I think the right balance between a simple turn and move forward and full on pure pursuit is a boomerang controller. Essentially it creates a bezier curve that the robot follows between two points.

The other difficult thing is the asynchronous chassis movement. The chassis and the subsystems need some way to communicate so that they don't get out of sync. It looks like the approach ARMS uses is that the chassis movement runs in its own task, and then provides a function that blocks execution until the chassis stops moving. Of course, the typical problems with asynchronous code arise, concurrency is always an issue. Race conditions are scary.

## Thoughts on Program Structure
  - Chassis Class
    - contains methods to move to a point (gets sent to pid task)
    - Odometry Class
      - contains methods to get the current position
    - Pid Class
      - contains methods to:
        - start the pid task
        - return the current mode of the chassis (moving, idle)
        - set the target position and movement style (boomerang, normal)
Obviously this will change as my understanding of what the program actually needs expands.



